VxLAN documentation (#102)
bisdn/bisdn.github.io: network_configuration/vxlan.md

---
title: VxLAN (Virtual Extensible Local Area Network)
parent: Network Configuration

---

# VxLAN

## Introduction

> Virtual Extensible LAN (VXLAN) is a distributed layer 2 switching entity that
> works by creating layer 2 tunnels between VXLAN Tunnel endpoints (VTEPs), and
> tries to fix the scalability issues in large distributed deployments. VxLAN
> offers 16 million logical networks (12-bit VNID).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtual eXtensible LAN (VXLAN) is a network overlay encapsulation protocol that aims to extend and distribute layer 2 networks on top of layer 3 topologies. Using a 12-bit Virtual Network Identifier (VNI) it allow to separate about 16 million logical network domains.
```

The official VXLAN documentation can be found in
[RFC 7348](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7348)

**WARNING**: baseboxd does not yet support multicast groups for establishing
communication among multiple VXLAN Tunnel Endpoints (VTEPs), only unicast is
supported. This means you can not use the ``group`` key in the ``VXLAN``
section as documented in
[systemd-netdev](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.netdev.html#Group=)
{: .label .label-yellow }

**WARNING**: The Accton AS4610 platform does not have VxLAN support. See our
[Limitations page](/limitations.md#No-VxLAN-support-on-Accton-AS4610) for more
information.
{: .label .label-red }

##

> We do not support VXLAN on Accton-AS4610 due to the fact that the Broadcom SDK

Reviewer: this part seems to be redundant and was probably not deleted after moving a copy to the limitations page linked above

Author: Yes copy pasta, removed.

does not define any of the required registers for VXLAN being present in the
appropriate register tables for Helix 4.

> ## Simple VxlAN configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sample VxlAN configuration
```

#  |    |                                          |         |                                     |         |
#  |   ++-------------+                            |         |                            +--------+-----+   |
#  |   | swbridge     |                            |         |                            | swbridge     |   |
#  |   ++-------------+                            |         |                            +--------+-----+   |
#  |    | VLAN 300                                 |         |                           LAN 300   |         |
#  |    |     |                                    |         |                                |    |         |
#  |    |     |                                    |         |                                |    |         |
#  |    |     |                                    |         |                                |    |         |
#  |    | Untag VLAN                               |         |                          Untag VLAN |         |
#  |  +-+------+                                   |         |                               +-----+----+    |

> #  |  | port_a |                                   |         |                               | port_d   |    |

Reviewer: The port names chosen here seem to be inconsistent with the rest of our documentation. Any reason for that?

#  +--+-+-+----------------------------------------+         +-----------------------------------+-+-+-------+

> The configuration give below will create a VXLAN tunnel with VNID=50000 between

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration give below will create a VXLAN overlay with VNI=50000 between
```

Author: Fixed

> ``port_b`` on ``switch1`` and ``port_c`` on ``switch2``. ``port_a`` and
> ``port_d`` will have layer 2 connectivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``port_b`` on ``switch1`` and ``port_c`` on ``switch2``. The layer 2 domain containing ``port_a`` and ``port_d`` bridged on the swbridge on switch1 and switch2 is extended via the before mentioned VXLAN overlay network with the VNI 50000.
```

## systemd-networkd
The configuration with systemd-networkd can be done with the following files,
simply add them to the ``/etc/systemd/networkd`` directory.

> Create bridge ``swbridge``, tag it on ``vlan=300`` and set it up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create bridge ``swbridge``, tag it with ``VLAN=300`` and set it up.
```

```
20-swbridge.netdev:

[NetDev]
Name=swbridge
Kind=bridge

[Bridge]
VLANFiltering=1
DefaultPVID=none
```

```
20-swbridge.network:

[Match]
Name=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
VLAN=300
```

> Tag ``vlan=300`` on ``port_a``, attach it to ``swbridge`` and set it up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add VLAN tag ``VLAN=300`` on ``port_a`` incoming traffic, untag the outgoing one, attach it to ``swbridge`` and set it up.
```

```
10-port_a.network:

[Match]
Name=port_a

[Network]
Bridge=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
PVID=300
EgressUntagged=300
```

> Add ``vxlan=50000`` to ``port_c``, configure an IPv4 address, and set it up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add ip address 192.168.0.1/24 to ``port_b``, define it as underlying interface for netdev vxlan50000 (created below) and set it up.
```

```
10-port_b.network:

[Match]
Name=port_b

[Network]
VXLAN=vxlan50000
Address=192.168.0.1/24
```

> Create vxlan ``vxlan50000`` and set local and remote VXLAN Tunnel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create netdev ``vxlan50000`` for VXLAN with the VNI 50000 and set local and remote VXLAN Tunnel
```

> endpoints(VTEPs). Enable MacLearning to discover remote MAC addresses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Endpoints(VTEPs. Enable MacLearning to discover remote MAC addresses
```

Author: Capitalized the E. I think your bracket removal was an oversight?

```
300-vxlan50000.netdev:

[NetDev]
Name=vxlan50000
Kind=vxlan

[VXLAN]
VNI=50000
DestinationPort=4789
Local=192.168.0.1
Remote=192.168.0.2

> MacLearning=True

Reviewer: Is this needed? What exactly does it do?

Author: I will investigate, it seems that the Linux kernel set port 8472 as the default for VXLAN, and later IANA decided on port 4798. Systemd will use the Linux default port if no port is chosen, i.e. 8472. Systemd-netdev docs state that the DestinationPort

```
Configures the default destination UDP port. If the destination port is not specified then Linux kernel default will be used. Set to 4789 to get the IANA assigned value.
```

Reviewer 2: https://www.google.com/search?channel=fs&client=ubuntu&q=vxlan+default+port
it is 4789, not 4798

Author: I do not which of Local/Remote/MacLearning are strictly needed for the minimal example to work. I currently don't have access to hardware to test either.

Do we need the MacLearning=True @hwoesner ?

```

>  Tag ``vlan=300`` on ``vxlan50000`` and attach it to ``swbridge``. Set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Allow VLAN tagged traffic with ``VLAN=300`` on ``vxlan50000`` and attach it to ``swbridge``. Set
```

>  ``port_b`` to be the BindCarrier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ``port_b`` to be the BindCarrier to bind the behaviour and state (up/down) of ``vxlan50000`` to its underlying interface.
```

```
300-vxlan50000.network:

[Match]
Name=vxlan50000

[Network]
BindCarrier=port_b
Bridge=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
VLAN=300
```

> 

Reviewer: This seems to be only half of the configuration needed? What about the rest?

Author: Added config for switch2

```
10-port_b.network:

[Match]
Name=port_b

[Network]
VXLAN=vxlan50000
Address=192.168.0.1/24
```

Create vxlan ``vxlan50000`` and set local and remote VXLAN Tunnel
Endpoints(VTEPs). Enable MacLearning to discover remote MAC addresses
```
300-vxlan50000.netdev:

[NetDev]
Name=vxlan50000
Kind=vxlan

[VXLAN]
VNI=50000
DestinationPort=4789
Local=192.168.0.1
Remote=192.168.0.2
MacLearning=True
```

Allow VLAN tagged traffic with ``VLAN=300`` on ``vxlan50000`` and attach it to
``swbridge``. Set ``port_b`` to be the BindCarrier to bind the behaviour and
state (up/down) of ``vxlan50000`` to its underlying interface.
``DestinationPort`` configures the destination UDP port to the IANA standard.
If no port set systemd will use the default Linux kernel value 8472.

```
300-vxlan50000.network:

[Match]
Name=vxlan50000

[Network]
BindCarrier=port_b
Bridge=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
VLAN=300
```

The configuration files for ``switch2`` are identical to those of ``switch1``
with the exception of port names (``port_a`` and ``port_b`` become ``port_d``
and ``port_c``, and the IPv4 addresses for the VTEP, Remote and Local will

> switch. Therefore the files below will be listed without an explanation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
switch. Therefore the files below are shown without additional explanation.
```

Author: Suggestion added

```
20-swbridge.netdev:

[NetDev]
Name=swbridge
Kind=bridge

[Bridge]
VLANFiltering=1
DefaultPVID=none
```

```
20-swbridge.network:

[Match]
Name=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
VLAN=300
```

Add VLAN tag ``VLAN=300`` on ``port2`` incoming traffic, untag the outgoing one, attach it to ``swbridge`` and set it up.
```
10-port2.network:

[Match]
Name=port2

[Network]
Bridge=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
PVID=300
EgressUntagged=300
```

Add ip address 192.168.0.1/24 to ``port54``, define it as underlying interface for netdev vxlan50000 (created below) and set it up.
```
10-port54.network:

[Match]
Name=port54

[Network]
VXLAN=vxlan50000
Address=192.168.0.1/24
```

Create netdev ``vxlan50000`` for VXLAN with the VNI 50000 and set local and remote VXLAN Tunnel
Endpoints(VTEPs).
```
300-vxlan50000.netdev:

[NetDev]
Name=vxlan50000
Kind=vxlan

[VXLAN]
VNI=50000
DestinationPort=4789
Local=192.168.0.1
Remote=192.168.0.2
```

Allow VLAN tagged traffic with ``VLAN=300`` on ``vxlan50000`` and attach it to
``swbridge``. Set ``port54`` to be the BindCarrier to bind the behaviour and
state (up/down) of ``vxlan50000`` to its underlying interface.

> ``DestinationPort`` configures the destination UDP port to the IANA standard.

Author: Reworded sentence, and added a link to the document where the IANA standard destination port is listed.

> ``DestinationPort`` sets the destination UDP port to follow the IANA standard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``DestinationPort=4789`` sets the destination UDP port to follow the IANA standard
```

Author: Excellent, I was pondering how to integrate the 4789 in the sentence. simple works

If no port is set systemd will use the default Linux kernel value 8472.

**WARNING**: baseboxd currently sets the local VTEP Termination port to 4789,
which means that every remote VTEP must use ``DestinationPort``=4789.
{: .label .label-yellow }

```
300-vxlan50000.network:

[Match]
Name=vxlan50000

[Network]
BindCarrier=port54
Bridge=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
VLAN=300
```

The configuration files for ``switch2`` are identical to those of ``switch1``
with the execption that the IPv4 addresses for the VTEP, Remote and Local will
switch. Therefore the files below are shown without additional explanation.

```
20-swbridge.netdev:

[NetDev]
Name=swbridge
Kind=bridge

[Bridge]
VLANFiltering=1
DefaultPVID=none
```

```
20-swbridge.network:

[Match]
Name=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
VLAN=300
```

```
10-port2.network:

[Match]
Name=port2

[Network]
Bridge=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
PVID=300
EgressUntagged=300
```

```
10-port54.network:

[Match]
Name=port54

[Network]
VXLAN=vxlan50000
Address=192.168.0.2/24
```

```
300-vxlan50000.netdev:

[NetDev]
Name=vxlan50000
Kind=vxlan

[VXLAN]
VNI=50000
DestinationPort=4789
Local=192.168.0.2
Remote=192.168.0.1

> MacLearning=True

Author: Yes, good catch. Removed

```

```
300-vxlan50000.network:

[Match]
Name=vxlan50000

[Network]
BindCarrier=port54
Bridge=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
VLAN=300
```

> Reboot the switches(recommended) or restart systemd-networkd for the

Reviewer: why is rebooting the switches recommended?

Author: My idea was that it would wipe out any lingering non-persistent network configuration that might interfere with the VXLAN configuration. The user however might actually want to keep their (iproute2 or similar) configuration while doing this. Maybe just change it to: "Restart systemd-networkd or reboot the switches to apply network configuration"?

Author: Updated to the suggestion I wrote above:
